okay welcome everyone to the be weekly
actually meeting its assembled at
hanging because making well we already
have a note-taker
it's Eric you moment you have to do it
and then please put your names on the
attendees list if your conditioning and
your updates if you have any bottom and
I guess as I don't see any particular
agenda items we just start with like
with the updates and then we go from
there if we have to definitely discuss
all right it's not let's start with Eric
okay I'm gonna try to get the super
short for mine because I could also talk
about it quite a bit and I'd like to ask
for feedback on some things so the short
form is I don't implementing some drafts
of what I feel these schemas could look
like that's a big topic so I'm trying to
do something that's very basic and very
easy to reach for that covers well-known
topics like some types like a unions
product types aka strokes and like the
most limited recursive types maps and
arrays and come up with a very basic
validate method that can take a schema
apply it to some data and be like yes or
no so I've got some early drafts on that
and I've got a hypothetical DSL sort of
syntax which I'm not going to take too
seriously anytime soon but it's just
something that we could look at and be
conversations study and I'm trying to
implement this stuff and make sure that
I don't hit any huge like icebergs in
the process so and I'd like to recruit
some more people to talk about that and
review stuff in case opinions and that's
what I've been up to
alright ok I have a discussion point
that I wanted to bring up later that
will greatly affect that so I don't have
a comment now because I don't want to
derail this whole period of comments on
your prudential schema thing but like
there will be something later well loop
back in on that and I have a question
and I hope I don't do you weigh the
whole thing is yours like is it also
about how we then know which data has
which schema because even if you have a
schema you need to somehow connect the
schema to the actual data so thus your
proposal also include this card or it's
just about this unit all right cool yeah
I'm assuming a very structural style of
type system where it's all we have some
pre-existing data
all right so who's next on the list
oh it's me so I was just playing around
with the new JavaScript icon the API and
two years old they like protocol buttons
to see how it looks like in the new
format and then also now I'm working on
that choice I call this stuff and then I
will combine the both to see if works
but it looks good so far I think and yet
this probably also what are we doing
next week I guess because it's I'm super
excited about it and I'm making good
progress all right so please if anyone
has any questions at any conscious group
raise your hands
all right next one is Aiden
he didn't seem to be frozen so I go to
the next one which is Stephen where's my
I feel people like can you hear me yes
all right good
most my fealty related work has in 20
minutes more people to use the IDS yeah
in there in ENS Syrian name system cuz
never liked going to any Ivy League like
data or any merkel dog really but we
have something like that they really
want to have some form vacation
addressing or at least something that
indicates that hey like this day and it
lives in swarm I'm convinced I'm hatin
like it doesn't have to you can address
it my content and then include some hit
somewhere but yeah so we're trying to do
that out trying to make it efficient and
like consciousness drastic us so issues
all right Aiden Vick to you yeah so yeah
last week was just doing some playing
around with using IPL D to pass messages
around instead of using photo buffs
thank you for everybody helping me
figure out what I was doing wrong that
was appreciated I'm still following the
Limpy to clear up roadmap stuff to see
where that law is with using you know
are having an RPC library or some sort
of message passing anything that makes
it easy to move messages around even
with Java JavaScript and go and I'm
winning if anybody else has more comment
on my the I guess interface for
replicating a virgin graph that'd be
useful but I will probably loop back to
doing implementation stuff on that at
some point but now that I have a basic
one working and focusing on other things
to know cool anyone else
Willis Michael Davis áfirstá even okay
alright I was going by the list okay
alright so I've been trying to do ok
ours so kicking that off for q1 wrapping
up q4 also doing the the yearly okay are
so those are all in individual issues
they also have seen well so we're
landing I'm landing the second piece of
the eunuchs of sp2 spec next week which
should make it like which basically
makes it complete enough to go and
implement it does not have all of the
really contentious things figuring out
like you know how we never ever sent
permissions and stuff like that but we
can effectively punt on that into the
future with with but there is one
exception that I'll get to in a little
bit I update
the draft implementation that I have
written in JavaScript so that actually
uses all the new spec stuff now I did I
had to I didn't have to I wanted to go
off and I wanted to test hypothesis
about how to store NPM data and so I
wanted to use the new draft spec when I
did that and so I ended up updating it
for that so it got updated a little bit
earlier than normal
also that the budgeting which we can
talk about sort of offline non-public
from the stuff one kind of big thing to
talk about though is that we we are
engaging with someone to take on the
work of I doing IETF spectra compliance
and all the process work to get some
stuff through the ITF for multi formats
and we're actually going to do multi
hash and CID together so there will be
like a visually they're like CID will be
the spec that we're pushing and then
there will also be a spectrum multi hash
that we are depending on and sort of the
process will be like oh there's a
normative dependency here that's why
these things are going to push through
we've had a lot of like good
conversations already with who's gonna
drive this it's done like a lot so one
who's done like a lot of ITF spec work
in the past including like HTTP two so
another really interesting thing here is
that so the codec registry stuff that we
have currently I thought that it was
going to be like a huge amount of work
to figure out like what does governance
look like and blah blah blah it turns
out that if you have a registry
requirement in an ICF spec you just say
hey I need an INR registry for this and
you just put that in the spec and then
win the spec it's finalized you
automatically get an I in a registry and
with as part of that process you
basically assign experts to it and the
there is an expert review for adding
anything to the registry so there
actually isn't a ton of work there and
we will eventually get an I on a
registry but that's something to think
about like it will not just be pull
requests to a CSV file at some point in
time where these Kotick registries will
actually have some kind of governance
around them and then we'll just be
sending pull requests to update the CSV
after they land in the INR is cool so
yeah the the big change that I want to
talk about now that we're through all
the updates I just caught I just put
this in a comment but if something I was
thinking about all weekend
based on some of the comments that
Stephen had a little while back about
how we might compress the representation
of files so if you have a really small
file just in letting the binary objects
rather than always linking to them that
got me thinking about like in some of
the other interfaces that we're doing
around IP LD we are trying to move
people towards just looking at paths
rather than trying to think about things
at a block level one thing that we could
do is actually change the university to
spec right now it basically thinks about
things as a block is an object and here
what the patterns are in each individual
block an object instead we could move to
a spec that just talked about the paths
and what each path means and just say
any path could actually end up being a
link if it's to like an object or an
array obviously like it can't just be do
the string because we can represent that
but that could free that would free up
like a lot of different ways to build
tree structures for instance you can
actually if you have a really small
directory of small files you could
compact the entire thing into one block
rather than doing multiple blocks there
like a huge amount of trade-offs to
think about here and we would also have
to carve out an exception for HAMP and
just say like also any of these names
base camps or whatever but yeah it would
be a sizable change but may end up
opening up a lot of performance
optimizations and people could do in the
future so Stevens hand go up by point
with it we can be link agnostic where we
just say what comes in transparent you
just reverse them you have a big like
effect we have one big object and it may
be broken syntax but the other point I
had was like I said the other question I
wasn't something about strings and not
being able to attach them what was that
yeah yeah so um I don't think that you
can create like a seam or
object that is just a string right UK
okay you can't okay great awesome is
minor just a string just a CID if you
really want to get nasty huh ouch
okay um all right well no that's that's
interesting though okay well yeah then
it we could just have it be
transparent yeah that wouldn't matter
okay cool
I just I think it can be a sting but I
think the canonical seaboard
the lowest ring and currently we choir
iPod EB can not equal Seaborn but that's
right I've never seen that required but
I can check
I think but but I you get but anyway
that's like like at least see Bo
definitely supports having experience as
a top but I want to point out this does
require respect we really if we do this
we have to move from supporting just see
IDs to full links you know I feel the
objects we're not always for the objects
will support this team or at least need
to because like otherwise I don't have
some object and like need to like
include one file that object you in a
different directory and it has like pull
that file with a subdirectory out of the
object services well that's so you may I
think like like that that's effectively
what this would end up doing right
because we would be we would literally
be saying that that file object may just
be a link or may not be a link and you
may actually have to pull it out and
create a new object for it no this is
like so the other way to do this is you
can just like instead of having just see
IDs new pointers which like only like
pointing to an entire block you locked
at the point inside the block which
think is going to your own anyways yeah
yeah that that's a sizable change
yeah it's although it's backwards
compatible we can use like for kind of
force compatible I guess or like if
objects don't have these extra length
you won't be able interpret they have
e-excellent you'll be able to put them
but we can easily we can literally just
be catenate a linked with the CID and it
just work there probably better way to
do this but we're pork is annoyed yeah I
mean so even the ability to represents
all of those things what kind of tools
what we have that would actually think
about the universe so totally completely
that it would decide to use link
structures like that well a lot of them
like the guy I had MS and I had my file
and it's in a directory and then I say
like copy this file over here like the m
FS would like you would I would be
simplify the link to like the shortest
link you could get which would be like
you
whenever flashed some very short paths
and then it would like put that in as
the link to the file in like the other
directory so does this imply that my new
tree root for that whole thing would be
a function state free of the previous
tree contents not Stapley no but you
would just point inside of the other
like that other block yeah so um I think
that we should probably create a thread
in the specs repo about like a link spec
or like a link B to spec or something
and just say that CID is alone or link
v1 where we start to specify out what
the padding structure is and then in the
university to spec we can just say like
this is a Lincoln at some points they
also link me to and then you can point
in to stuff yeah I mean the question for
right now is like and I think actually
Eric's question may also be about the
tools that end up creating these
directories how would they decide to
make these trade-offs or not like when
they're parsing them so to me the more
important thing is that the
implementations for reading support this
because in the future this would allow
parsers to make any kind of crazy
trade-off that they want like a really
good example of this right is that um if
you have a website you know that they
have to pull the index.html right away
and then the rest of the resources you
could inline all of it next at HTML into
the first object in the route and all
the rest can still be in a big tree
going off and getting like yeah so like
you can do things like optimize those
loads if you have this feature available
to you this also this also for things
like metadata where the curtain we have
is for most we don't want it emitted in
the file because then we change the file
based on the metadata it also like
listing directory so we really slow if
you catch every single file so ideally
we put that in the directory itself but
if we put it in the director itself then
like it's harder just link to the file
but like if we stopped caring about like
these links boundaries and we can just
like link to like the it's the correct
location that directory so it's the
correct directory entry and have that
beaten umbilicus the beginning of the
file at this end points to the final
data this allows us to like make you
dock musicians but really yeah to this
link
we already have that issue you open
stimulating about reproducible file
imports and we are so very many
light-years away from having that
well-described reported there is a huge
difference between content addressable
and content plus historical content
addressable what do we do if we end up
with those that are creating these links
based on some kind of advanced
optimizations based on already uploaded
data or something okay
well no it's not okay so we're always
going to have issues it is content
report just like we made it with
different address yes the content again
you won't get the same yes that yeah
yeah but I mean frankly I really like a
moment the moment that we say that it
you can represent this in two ways we
lose a hundred percent reproducibility
of the hashes right like even even just
allowing HAMP's or objects in there
right now means that you you are never
guaranteed that the exact same hat like
the two hashes don't actually represent
the same file structure reg yeah because
we want us to get X Pat and I consider
it a bug in the current draft we can't
do anything about it's like we're gonna
have the farthest because like we want
both ways importing the same for say we
have we currently had like a trickle bag
versus a regular data service like the
balance tag where we want to trickle
dagger in like appending to the bio or
like you want to be like read it
linearly anyone use the Riksdag of
potentially a bug and we have never
sufficiently studied whether or not
people are actually using that the only
people I've heard claim that they're
using it I asked them privately if they
were using it they said and we didn't
really check these are here is that like
all of the all of the trade-offs that we
would have to make for performance
optimizations and how you built the tree
is when we look at doing B trees when we
look at like even even in files right
when we start looking at like different
chunker's and how like those two get
optimized all of these require us to
just like not always have a hundred
percent deduplication
like you only get deduplication when
people are creating the tree roughly the
same way or you know you're getting it
only at the at the binaries like block
level and the
like if you're using the same chunker
but you don't get it for all the
intermediary nodes like there there's
always going to be this trade-off and I
think that we're gonna have to make it
once we like look start looking into
like sorted collections and stuff anyway
so it's not as big a deal to me that
were they were making it now and and I
mean and the reality is like if you run
ipfs like IVFs it's probably going to
make the trade-off stuff like it wants
to be as deep deduplicate as much as
possible and so if you always run it
with no options you're always going to
get the same thing and they're always
going to be hash compared it's just
opening up the opportunity to do it
differently also remember the data size
is mostly like large blocks and that
will always be in separate objects
actually that's one of the points of
this idea so the point is like one of
the pointers like we can embed like all
the mitad in all like the stuff that
differs and like wouldn't really do the
same between different files in like a
directory that's maybe different anyways
and then like the big pieces of data are
just blocks at the end of it it doesn't
you can have separate hashes which is
not good but I I don't think there's
anything we can do about that anyways if
you have a filesystem
we're like people are gonna be adding
metadata are changing things really you
want to make it as reproduced as
possible and you also won't have options
so obvious like say like make like do a
reproducible minimal add of this data
where like it just using like balanced
import all these various especially if
your subset of famous and won't give you
the best chunking won't give it back
certification it'll give you a like a
perfectly reproducible language which
everyone in WoW but but like that that's
a in this case but not necessarily in
this case yeah I mean like if you take
like the the index dot HTML one right
where we're optimizing by in lining all
of that like nobody's gonna have the
exact same website to me or at least I
assume they don't have the exact same
each team l with me and so like I'm not
as worried about the duplication as that
as I am of all of the sub resources like
all of the dependencies and all the the
images and fonts and all the other
that I linked to in the site like that I
need to duplicate it right look or for
guessing your primary complete it's not
really the duplication it's more the
like reproducibility but you want to
have a match every time for the Kim
identifier I mean at this point I would
also be willing to rest my case by
saying yes I agree with all of the above
but
I don't think all efficiently enumerated
all over the parameter spaces we have
ready creep usability and it makes me
super nervous to talk about doing more
of them before even having made that
about how much well well we do care
about having greatest reproducibility
this is best results where the whole
idea of like keeping track of all the
parameters came in for like if you get
somewhere then it becomes like Norfolk
reproducible but in my ideal world you
don't have to care about any of those
because everything just goes back to
anyways when you get a file you already
get it from my PMS so there's no like
like most people reporting data that's
not so yeah I also think that like the
reproducibility side like that is an
IPSS concern for the trees that it
creates and we have a lot more control
there to change what we're using in the
spec like we can always create these the
exact same way always use hams for
directories like just make that
trade-off and then they'll always be
reproducible we can limit the vectors by
which we're like introducing on
reproducibility in ipfs without
containing what the specs can
theoretically allow or what I CFS could
theoretically parts right okay question
about the like dirt the directories and
metadata like what what were you
envisioning it seemed like you were
envisioning like sometimes people want
to cover sometimes I want to send you a
folder and I want you to take the
metadata of the files with you and like
sometimes I don't is that is that what
you're trying to allow for so the issue
with the metadata is we have sorry we're
trying to get to duplication where it's
like so yes there are cases who won't
care but SATA data in which years or
move it and we find but a lot of kids
want to add some small map metadata
where like it depends on you adding and
that's what people are talking really
loudly can you hear me or are you
hearing - Accra noise I can
I can't hear you plus plus some ambient
background noise okay so the the idea is
basically we need to be able to support
duplicating the data blocks even if
people have different metadata so this
is this is where the large sort of
motivation of the questions we've netted
in director comes from the second half
of motivation is performance where we
want two people except someone metadata
to be able to list the directory and
like with the metadata let's do one be
able to that without fetching all the
actual data files these are really bit a
to motivation to come from there the
other way of doing this is you can
actually you can get the duplication
which is separating off the manage and
different block we have like directory
listing metadata metadata minute of
metadata and then data box but that's
that's all I have informatician have
these tiny little metadata blocks we
have accession them and then fetch them
in the block the nice thing about like
start saying okay forget the blocks we
just have a crash or really we have like
we have a dag is it then you can't like
move this data wherever you need you to
go for worse reasons and you optimize
that at the block level and then as the
graph level you can just look at it as
like one big piece of brass it's not
like we've actually talked about doing
like a step further in the past we're
like we actually build in a sharding
concept to I still get though for like
it especially
charted charted back charted array and
stuff like that we actually sided to
move or move away from that because it
was too and like we're building too many
things in tactically and now we're
planning to have like a small layer on
top of that with this I can be sure said
that UNICEF is going to use to do that
kind of stuff budge pretty first
therefore I cut out for for some of that
because my internet was misbehaving but
um I'm wondering if like if you're you
can always send the metadata separately
in a sense right like you can have like
a trace in the same way that if if you
you know you are constrained to not be
allowed you can only put primitives into
a map right well you can still create
you can still store a struct in a map by
just having like a sequence of maps that
each contain one of the fields in the
stop here so you have it becomes like a
side fearsome but like you have like two
trees where you have one with the data
and then a metadata tree and the end of
the route uh you could do that that gets
like tricky to link tubes now if you
want to like someone wants includes like
a sub part of the graph now you need to
create this new join node that make
sense really
you want a conclusive file or some some
trees now you need to like pull out the
sub tree from pole graphs and then
create a join node to do that yeah I
mean it's definitely like it's it's very
use kiss dependent in terms of I want
this thing to be content-addressable
with and without this particular chunk
of data added to it right you can't sort
of have-your-cake- and-eat-it-too
and have it but you can except I feel
like if if I understood better what the
use cases were of like when we want
those and when we didn't right then we'd
know how much we cared well this is also
thinking about like pulling or
separating the data blocks from the rest
of the tree there's it at least we can
do to placate the data blocks this does
cause a problem for content routing
where it's much like if I had the entire
tree it's much easier to have like
everyone like tell or not the work they
have in territory then it that caught it
round just works beautifully you can't
really it like we're currently not
seeing every single block with that
block to work for us long term but sorry
Booker big retail copy yeah just do we
have any other items because we already
have the we are running out of time so
is there anything else very briefly I'm
dynamic data is meeting with the textile
folks this week they will have their own
data structures and stuff that they're
trying to figure out what we can do and
and what ways torque the other I'll try
and report back next time with with info
from that
what is that meeting it's on Thursday
really young also new Miss Ann you
invite thank you yeah I think we might
want to put the offline in boxing all
right
anything else all right does anybody
wanna take a skin proposition or we just
wear time so I can probably take it
offline I guess and then we just comment
on that just yes that's that's okay
I mean like of course like people can
stay on if they want
I would officially end the meeting in
anything is there the IRC Channel
discuss cool all right
then things everyone for attending and
oh we're putting we'll see us in two
weeks because I don't wanna be no
Christmas so let's meet again in yeah I
do we made this earlier - okay yeah just
like probably we need some like on I
asked you I don't know yeah okay oh the
honeymoon wish a Happy New Year and
Christmas
see you in four weeks